
In part because of the "garden of forking paths" , transparency of the *process*
of research is crucial: (1) groups such as ours are too small to serve entire
federal government, so each project we undertake must have a pedagogical
component --- we are teaching the government about social and behavioral science
and about experiments even as we provide such theory and methods to the
government; (2) as social and behavioral scientists, we know the limitations of
experiments and of the statistical summaries that we use to make sense of them
--- we know that our results might have come out in ways that we ourselves might
not have anticipated if others were to have confronted the same data (example of
that paper on European league football analyzed by ?20? teams); (3) We value
visualization and description: any given $p$-value tells us exactly what it
should (assuming that the $p$-value arose from its own well designed process --
including pre-registration of analysis when possible and our own attention to
issues of data snooping/multiple testing/p-hacking as well as test validity. For
example, we tend to think of our statistical tests in a randomization inference
framework which allows us to assess the error rates of our tests easier than if
we had to articulate probability models of outcomes or probability models of
treatment effects apriori.); (4) we want to create policy actionable results so
we have to be attuned to both the fact that our results are *local* (i.e. tell
us about one particular group of people epxposed to a particular intervention at
a point in time) not *global* (they do not tell us in and of themselves how to
think about what would happen with large scale roll out of these policies)
**and** the fact that further questions may arise as agencies want to
incorporate our results into their processes (so, we need to make it easy for
them to re-analyze our data and discuss our nitty-gritty decisions with us); (5)
some of our work will have scientific impact, and we need to also encourage
involvement in our work from the broader scientific community.

What do we do about this?

**Peer review.** In some software development groups, the main code is never
directly changed. Rather, people "branch" or copy the main code, make a change
and then *make a request that their changes be integrated into the main code*.
This request cannot be approved by the requestor, and must be approved by a
colleague on the team. In this way, those teams institutionalize code review.
They also make one step toward engaging with the questions about the many
decisions underlying any given data analysis.

**Work in the open**

**Open source tools or tools that we make available to others**

**Use the cloud**


# Mission

We aim to improve the way that government serves the people (including the
people of the government) by using insights and methods from the behavioral and
social sciences.

We hope to work as a force for good directly by working with agency partners to
propose policy changes and assessing whether those changes did, in fact, change
the world for the better.  We also hope to develop the ability and desire to
use theory, findings, and method from behavioral and social sciences among
people who have pursued civil service as a profession instead of the behavioral
and social sciences. That is, we have a mission to build capacity even as we
have a mission to design and evaluate policy changes ourselves. In fact, we,
ourselves, have no authority to implement changes in the ways in which agencies
serve the public, nor do we have authority to collect data on the outcomes of
these changes. It is only working together with agencies that we can do our
job: so, building capacity is as central a concern as reporting on how the
behavioral and social sciences improved the lives of Americans.

Our mission requires that we work in ways that engender trust: we have to trust
in ourselves and the literatures on which we build enough to make proposals for
policy changes and research designs to assess our ideas, our agency partners
must trust that we will help them (even if we discover no effects, even if no
past scientific literature provides guidance), the people served by the agency
must trust us (directly or indirectly through the agency) to make their lives
better.

Trust in ourselves requires that we work in a collaborative yet asynchronous
fashion: we have to be able to collaborate with our future selves as well as
with others. Trust in us from agency partners and their populations requires
openness about what we do and why we do it.

These basic requirements for our work lead to a series of operational
commitments or prioritized ways of working.

Principles of open government collaborative, participatory, transparent <http://www.opengovpartnership.org/about/open-government-declaration>


i<http://sciencecommons.org/resources/readingroom/principles-for-open-science/>
Principles of open science <https://cos.io/> integrity, reproducibility, openness.  


"Trust is not a scientific value.  Transparency is a replacement for trust.  The irrelevance of trust is facilitated by having no central authority for truth, and by making evidence and its source available publicly.  In principle, anyone can evaluate the basis of claims, and reproduce the procedures in order to verify the claims." (page 5 of Center for Open Science: Strategic Plan)

<https://docs.google.com/document/d/17OTxjE5zl34VcXiAORayFOCDIkyRCiefh1ZBN1qEBUc/edit>

Open science schools of thought <http://book.openingscience.org/basics_background/open_science_one_term_five_schools_of_thought.html> 


## Principles of Open Government Data

<https://opengovdata.org/>





<http://www.forbes.com/sites/rosspomeroy/2013/11/29/the-three-values-of-science/#6393728510c4>

Feynman's three values of science: "...scientific knowledge enables us to do all kinds of things and to make all kinds of things." 
"ANOTHER VALUE of science is the fun called intellectual enjoyment which some people get from reading and learning and thinking about it, and which others get from working in it.”

“Now, we scientists… take it for granted that it is perfectly consistent to be unsure, that it is possible to live and not know. But I don’t know whether everyone realizes this is true. Our freedom to doubt was born out of a struggle against authority in the early days of science. It was a very deep and strong struggle: permitting us to question – to doubt – to not be sure. I think that it is important that we do not forget this struggle and thus perhaps lose what we have gained. Herein lies a responsibility to society.”

"“The scientist has a lot of experience with ignorance and doubt and uncertainty, and this experience is of very great importance, I think.”"


